
### Exercise

In the reference design from **experiment 5**, only the lower memory half (i.e., address range 000h-0FFh) is used for storing the LCD codes of lower-case characters. First, extend the “MIF” file with the LCD codes such that the upper memory half (i.e., address range 100h-1FFh) stores the LCD codes for upper-case characters. Each letter character displayed on the LCD should be shown in either _upper-case_ _mode_ or the _lower-case_ _mode_, as follows. If the position (or index) of the _most_ significant switch that is in the _low_ position from the group of switches 15 down to 0 is an odd number, then _mode_ is _upper-case_; otherwise, it is _lower-case_ (this includes the scenario when no switches from 15 down to 0 are in the _low_ position). For the sake of simplicity, it is assumed that the _mode_ affects only the letter keys, i.e., ‘a’ to ‘z’; digit keys ('0' to '9') and the space key are not affected by this _mode_. It is fair to assume that for this exercise, no other keys than the types specified above (i.e., 'a' to 'z', '0' to '9' and space) will be typed. It is important to note that the _mode_ can be changed by toggling a switch at a time between the times when any two keys that have been pressed.

Only after sixteen keys have been typed the entire top line is displayed at once (using a shift register structure, as for the in-lab **experiment 5**). After the top line is displayed, if the string “comp” appears in the top line, all red LEDs should be lightened. The red LEDs are turned off when a new key is pressed, and we load the first key of the bottom line. As for the top line, all sixteen characters from the bottom line are displayed at once. If the string “3dq5” appears in the bottom line, all green LEDs should be lightened. The green LEDs are turned off when a new key is pressed, and we move back to the top line and repeat the above-specified behaviour. It is important to note that if the bottom line is “Example is 3dQ5 ” the green LEDs should be lightened. This is because the lower-case or upper-case modes matter when displaying a character; however, they do not matter for comparisons (i.e., regardless of whether we display ‘q’ or ‘Q’, we detect the same character). The same principle applies to the top line.

As a final point, you should also note that while a full line of 16 characters gets sent to the LCD controller, it will take just below 15 microseconds (us) in simulation. Hence, ensure the next key press in `board_events.txt` will be done after these 15 us have elapsed (this concerns simulation only if you choose to use it).

Submit your sources, and in your report, write approximately half a page (but not more than a full page) that describes your reasoning. Your sources should follow the directory structure from the in-lab experiments (already set up for you in the `exercise` folder); note that your report (in `.pdf`, `.txt` or `.md` format) should be included in the `exercise/doc` sub-folder.

Your submission is due 16 hours before your next lab session. Late submissions will be penalized.

